#summary Build instructions

= FreeRCT build instructions =

Currently only Linux is officially supported, but Windows support is on the todo list. However, with some modifications a Windows build can be made. There are some comments below which may help you achieve this. Note that for the time being, this is entirely unsupported.

== Package building ==
  * For building native _Debian/Ubuntu/Linux Mint_ packages, the repository has a 'debian' subdirectory with a build description. There is also an _*unofficial*_ PPA at https://launchpad.net/~adrian-arroyocalle/+archive/freerct, set up by Adrián Arroyo Calle.

== Check out ==

The source code is in Subversion, so you need a svn client to get it.

The command to do this is
<pre>
$ svn checkout http://freerct.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/   freerct-read-only
</pre>
(see also the 'source' tab of the project)

== Building the program ==

Almost everything is written in C++, which means you need *g++* to compile it.
In addition, you need

  * The *lex* (or *flex*) scanner generator, and the *yacc* (or *bison*) parser generator, for generating the RCD input file scanner and parser.
  * *libpng* for making the RCD data files (that contain the graphics and other data read by the program),
  * *SDL* and *SDL-ttf* (true-type font) for displaying graphics of the program (both should be SDL version 1), and
  * last but not least, you need the standard development stuff, like *make*.

The existence of these programs is checked by a pretty `configure` script.
As of Sept 2013, all the paths are all still hardcoded into the Makefiles, however, work is in progress to fix this.
You may need to tweak the INCLUDES path (add `-I/extra/include/directory` options for finding `.h` files), and/or the LIBS path (add `-L/extra/lib/directory` at the beginning for finding the `lib*.so` or the `lib*.a` libraries).

Building is as simple as

<pre>
$ cd freerct-read-only # Go into the downloaded source directory.
$ ./configure          # Checks libraries are where they're supposed to be and replaces some strings
$ make                 # Let make do the heavy work.
</pre>

  * The _src_ directory contains the source code of the FreeRCT program itself.
  * The _rcdgen_ directory contains the source code of the _rcdgen_ program, that builds RCD files from source (which are read by _freerct_).
  * The _rcd_ directory contains the source files of the RCD data files, except the graphics.
  * The _sprites_src_ directory contains all the graphics of the game.

The _make_ command above will also generate the _rcdgen_ program, and build the RCD files.
This should create a 'freerct' program in the directory.

At the end, _make_ checks for the presence of the _freerct.cfg_ file. The first time, that will fail. See below how to fix that.

== Config file ==

Finally, you need a 'freerct.cfg' INI format file next to the 'freerct' program, containing the path to the font file you want to use. It looks like

{{{
[font]
medium-size = 12
medium-path = /usr/share/fonts/gnu-free/FreeSans.ttf
}}}

This means the medium sized font is 12 points high, and its source font definition file is at the indicated path. Make sure you use a path that actually exists.

The actual file is not that critical, as long as it contains the ASCII characters, in the font-size you mention in the file.

== Running the program ==

Now run the program

<pre>
$ cd src
$ ./freerct
</pre>

which should open a window containing a piece of greenly coloured flat world, and a toolbar near the left top (see also the pictures in the blog).

Pressing 'q' quits the program.